Every human being may not be expected to know all the natural languages. Abundance of useful information is available on the web but may be in foreign language. For making it available in native language of user, first the source language of the information must be identified. Language identification (LI), also called as language guessing, is the task in natural language processing (NLP) that automatically identify the natural language in which the content in given document are written in. Before going for any particular natural language application, one must identify the language of the content. Natural languages have different grammatical structures hence many tasks of NLP such as POS tagging, information extraction, machine translation, multilingual documents processing are language dependent. Language identification is fundamental and crucial stage in many NLP applications. Hence, there is need to develop an automated tool and techniques for language identification before application of further processing. For example, in case of machine translation to convert a foreign language text into required language text, the language in which the original text is written must be identified. Once it is identified then using a machine translation system it can be translated in required target language. Due to diversity of documents on the web, LI is a vital task for web search engines during crawling and indexing of web documents. For cross-lingual applications there is an increasing demand to deal with multilingual documents. Computationally, language identification problem is viewed as a special case of text categorization or classification. This paper enlists the challenges in automatic language identification that is required as a pre-processing task for MT. Many methods of LI are based on n-gram modelling. State-of the-art techniques use machine learning based algorithms for extracting linguistic features along with traditional n-gram modelling for language identification. Language identification is helpful to remove the language barrier among the users along with machine translation. Although a lot of research is going on for language identification for foreign languages, a little attention is paid for automatic identification of Indian languages. Rest part of the paper is organized as follows, role of language identifier in machine translation is presented. In section challenges involved in language identification are discussed. methodology used for experimentation is discussed. research work related to language identification is given. experimentation and result analysis done is discussed and finally concluding remark is given.
